## Day 1

* Self introduction
* Overview of the course
* Interacting with a computer
    * Excel
    * Editor and run in the terminal
    * Show a bit of the Iris project in Jupyter notebook
    * Use Chat GPT with various question:
        * how much is 5!
        * what are the distribution of the letter in the following sentence? "The black cat climbed the green tree"
        * Write a python program that will generate the distribution of letters in a text
        * The last one we asked twice and we saw that we got back two different implementations.
    * Asked the co-pilot to write a program to calculate the are and the circumference of a circle.
    * Installed VS Code on Windows (it was already connected to GitHub co-pilot)
    * Created a new folder for our project files. Open it in VS Code. Wrote the `print("Hello World!")` program
    * Installed `python` from https://www.python.org/ (actually it first installed an "installer" which asked a few questions and installed python.) For me it worked immediately but you might need to restart VS Code.
* Programming
    * The language: [Python](https://www.python.org/)
    * 3rd party libraries on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/) has 784,808 projects e.g. [Biopython](https://biopython.org/).
    * On GitHub
* Version control
* [GitHub](https://github.com/)
* GitHub pages

* Some AI tools:
    * [ChatGPT](https://chatgpt.com/)
    * [GitHub co-pilot](https://github.com/features/copilot#pricing)
    * [Codex of OpenAI](https://openai.com/codex/)

### Assignment (day 1)

* [Watch the 1st video: Creating a website on GitHub Pages using Markdown](https://git.code-maven.com/git-maven/creating-a-website-on-github-pages-using-markdown)
* Create a web site for yourself using GitHub pages. Remember to use the repository name `USERNAME.github.io`. Get ideas from the pages of the students in the previous courses.

* [Watch the 2nd video: Using Git on Windows in VS Code](https://git.code-maven.com/git-maven/using-git-on-windows-in-vs-code).
* Create a separate public repository for all the assignments of the course. (e.g. you can call it `python-course-assignments`)
    * Create a file called `README.md` and in it add a link leading to the repository of the course.
    * Create a folder called `day01`
    * In the folder create a program that will print "Hello World!"
    * Add a file called `day01/README.md` and include all the information about the AIs you used.
        * Which AIs? Include links!
        * What were your prompts?
        * If you don't write your prompts in English that's fine. Include them as you wrote them.

Once they are ready open an issue on the GitHub repository of the course. The title of the issue should contain your full name and name of the assignment e.g. "Day1 by Foo Bar", in case your name is Foo Bar. In the issue include the link to the site, the link to the repository of the site, and the link to the repository of the assignment.

Dead-line: 2026.04.19 20:00

## Day 2

* About the assignments, how we will give feedback via GitHub.
* How to follow a project (repository) on GitHub to get notifications.
* The WhatsApp group we have.
* See the list of students. Learn from the work of each other.
* About the Projects.
* Try to do some of the assignments without AI. That way you will learn the syntax better.
* Review some of the already submitted assignments.
* Should we put everything we ask the AI to put in the README. What feels to be relevant, that will be clear to others and to you a few months from now.
* How can we know that the AI did the correct job? - How would you know that what you did is correct?
* What are your expectation from some computation or process?
* How can you make changes to your work done by AI? Will you tell it to start from scratch or improve the existing one? How do you know that it did not break anything already worked.
* Writing automated tests. A general description of testing.


* Creating a web-site:
    * Generating the HTML page (content + layout) using AI.
    * Creating only the content in a Markdown file and let GitHub generate the site using Jekyll.
    * Using Jekyll templates.

* I asked some of the students to replace the html they probably generated by AI with plain markdown and a template, but maybe I am too old school. Maybe it is ok to ask the AI to regenerate the HTML.

* Syntax of the Hello World program from day 1. Some cases of Syntax errors.
* A few words from the students.
* A few words about the `rectangle.py` program of day 1.
* Review the `circle.py` program from day 1.
    * Strings, integers, floating point numbers.
    * Converting a string to integer `int` or to floating to using `float`.
    * When to use floating point numbers and when to use integers?
    * RAM vs hard-disk (or ssd)
    * RAM - fast but temporary.
    * hard-disk / ssd - slow but permanent storage.
    * transistors, bits, bytes
    * libraries (modules) such as `math`.
    * How to see the attributes and methods of a module.

* The Interactive Interpreter or Interactive Shell of Python.
* Scaring students by `0.1 + 0.2` being 0.300000000004.
* Using `round` to compare floating point numbers.

* The source code of Python: https://github.com/python/cpython/
* The documentation of Python: https://docs.python.org/

* Functions (eg. `len()`) vs. methods (eg. `var.floor()`)

Verifying your environment that you can:
* Clone your repository form GitHub.
* Create a Python file.
* Run the Python program.
* Commit your changes to a local git repository.
* Push it out to GitHub.


### Assignment (day 2)

Create a folder called `day02`.

Come up with some (well known) scientific calculation from your field. Write a program that will get the input from the user and do that computations.
If you need more than one input value, then you can call `input` multiple times. Add a `README.md` file in which you describe the program.
Give a sample input so it will be easier for us to check.

If you used AI to do the work then also include which AI you used and what were the prompts you wrote.

Dead-line: 2026.04.26 20:00

## Day 3

* Go over writing code - example calculation of area of circle.
* Error messages in python.
* Difference between different inputs.
* Comparison to generating same code using AI.
* Importing external tools (libraries).
* Going over functions - example factorial.
* Reusability of functions
* How to use  `if __name__== "__main__"` to import modules.
* Difference between string and f string.
* What are dictionaries: key and values.
* How to use `.gitignore`, for example `__pycache__` folder.
* How to use sys.argv for user input.
* How to generate a gui for the user input (for example tinter).
* How to implement business logic and user interface.
* Setting up the AI chat extensions in visual code.
* How to use tests to check your program.

### Assignment (day 3)

* Copy your solution from day2 to the `day03` folder.
* If it was not in a function yet, move the "business logic" (that is, the computation) into a function (or functions if that is better).
* Move the function(s) into a separate file (called a library or module).
* Create 3 versions of the program for 3 different ways to interact with the users. Each one uses the shared library.
    1. uses standard input (the `input` function)
    1. uses the command line (the `sys.argv` list)
    1. uses GUI. You can use tkinter, the one we used in class, or you can use some other library.
* Create a test file with a number of test-cases to verify that your "business logic" (the computation) works as expected.

* As usual, create a `README.md` file where you describe what you did and how was your interaction with any AI you used.
* If you use any external library (that you also had to install) then mention it in the README file.

Dead-line: 2026.05.03 20:00


